## Terms and Conditions for No-Pay Leave (NPL)
1. You have to consume all your leave eligibility (i.e. Vacation Leave & SPF Casual Leave if applicable) first before embarking on your no-pay leave (NPL).                                                                                                                                    
2. You have to return your PKI Card/RSA Token before the commencement of your NPL, for NPL periods of one month or more (if applicable). As you are not eligible for any medical and dental benefits during the period of NPL if the NPL period is one month or more, you will not be allowed to use your e-CS card for purpose of medical and dental benefits as well. You will also not qualify for full-pay sick leave during NPL.                                                                                                                                                               
3. If you are on the Public Officers Group Insurance Scheme, you should arrange directly with the insurer to pay for your premium during the NPL period. If your premium is not paid, your policy will lapse once the premium is overdue.                                                                                                                                                                                                  
4. The NPL period will not be included in your total length of service or service qualifying for bonus payments, higher vacation leave eligibility, extended sick leave eligibility or certain awards (e.g. long service awards).                                                                                                                                                                                                 
5.  For officer on salary scale, if the NPL period is taken for one month or more, your incremental month will be shifted by the number of complete months of no-pay leave taken. Any residual period less than 30 days will be ignored.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
6.  The NPL period will count as service for grant of salary increment if it is less than one month and/or the NPL is granted for further studies of direct value to the organisation.                                                                                                                                                                                                    
7.  Generally, officers on NPL are not allowed to take on external employment while on NPL. This is with the exception of employment which is organisation-initiated, and of strategic importance and direct relevance to the organisation, e.g. export of public sector capabilities. Ministries may grant such officers leave of absence on NPL terms in such cases.  Additionally, in certain instances of NPL such as when accompanying spouse overseas, only short-term and temporary employment with a defined end-point is allowed, e.g. consultancy or project work.  You should seek approval from your Ministry to take on external employment while on NPL. If you are an Administrative Officer, your application for external employment will be subject to approval from the Public Service Division.                                                                                                                                                             
8.  The external employment during NPL will be subject to the following conditions:                                                                                                                                                                                  
9.  The employment does not violate the reason for the NPL in the first instance;                                                                                                                                                        
10.  You must ensure that during your period of employment, you do not conduct yourself in any way that would bring the Civil Service into disrepute. As a civil servant, you are still subject to the standing rules and instructions in the Civil Service; and                                                                                                                                                      
11.  The Peirod of the employment will not be considered as service to the Civil Service.

## Terms and Conditions for Returning From NPL
1. Your return from NPL is subject to availability of suitable post in the Agency at the point of return. Alternatively, arrangements may be made for you to transfer to another Agency, subject to availability of posts.                                                                                                                                                                                                       
2. For NPL of up to 6 months, you are expected to report back to your organisation upon the end of your NPL period. For NPL of 6 months and beyond, you have to confirm your return from NPL at least 3 months before your NPL ends.                                                                                                                                                                                
3. Any request for curtailment or extension of NPL must be submitted at least 1 month (for NPL of up to 6 months) or 3 months (for NPL of more than 6 months) before the end date of the NPL. Requests for extension of NPL will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will be subject to exigencies of service. There is a cap of 2 years on the maximum duration an officer can be away continuously on NPL, with subsequent extensions of up to 2 years in each instance.                                                                                                                         
4. If you do not resume duties at the end of the approved NPL period, you may be treated as having vacated office in accordance with the Government Instruction Manual 2, Section P.

## Specific Terms & Conditions
1. For SPF Officers, your Police Institution Fund (PIF) subscriptions will be ceased for NPL periods of one month or more and will be restored when you report back to work. Officers need to inform the PIFs where they hold membership of their NPL period upon approval.                                                                                                                   
2. For Police Central Welfare Fund (PCWF) members who have Fixed Deposit(s) with the POLWEL Co-Operative Society Limited and wish to keep their Fixed Deposit(s) till maturity, they must pay PCWF their subscription fees in full for the months that they will not be working a single day during the NPL period.

	`Example: Insp Wong is taking NPL from 5 Sep 2020 to 15 Dec 2020. He will need to pay upfront his subscription fees for the months of Oct and Nov 2020. He does not need to pay out of his own pocket the subscription fees for Sep and Dec 2020. The subscription fees in these months will be deducted from his pro-rated salary for those months.
